moving on guitars I've spent hours and
hours and hours and weeks and months and
years trying to get a good guitar sound
and i'm still perfecting it but um as
much as i love easy mix it turns out
that I the sound that I liked the most
was just throwing some EQ on you know
cut some of the low-end mud out let the
bass take all this stuff this area right
in here try to bring down the high end
just a little bit just so the vocals can
cut through make a little dip right here
also between one point six and four
kilohertz because that's the vocals
strongest areas right in here right
about that area so if you can create a
little dip such that you don't really
notice that there's a dip their the
vocals will shine through even more
there than go for it like I said bring
down to the top a little bit if you can
dab it depending on the EQ setting that
you record your guitar is that but
here's the guitar track this is not just
the left speaker but you know just to
give you an example
he has a nice tight compressed sound all
I did was throw that compress the that
EQ on there and oh I keep getting
sidetracked but anyways what I was
saying about loving easy mix that i
liked it i tried it came up with a good
sound and I was like you know what let's
let's fiddle with something else so I
did and I just filled with the the
built-in dynamics processor that's in
garage band and i don't know why i never
tried this all along but it's awesome
check it out
it's basically a compressor and it's
visual too so you see where it's
capturing it here when it turns red that
that's sound that's not going up that
it's stopping and if you you're
basically squashing it so if you can add
a little bit of squash with the dynamics
compressor with some EQ that's really
you know just follow your ears but I
found that this is a sound that works
for me it's pretty basic just some basic
EQ and the dynamics processor going back
to the EQ by the way there's always some
hideous frequency that bleeds through
the mix when you record guitars so
that's why some of these knobs are a
little like kaflooey but um yes this is
me just following my ears and you know I
record my guitar is exactly the same at
this point just because it makes it
simpler to record because it allows me
to use the same presets which is this is
a preset it but it's basically guitar
one you click on guitar one is it's
going to come up that's how I saved it I
always have some issues with this
frequency 0 and 1 kilohertz so I just
bring it down a little bit so anyways
that's the guitar is I'll show you what
they all sound like together
I do want to show you something cool at
the end one of my favorite parts is this
ultra section basically when the double
double time part kicks in
that's it
let me so sister show you how all this
layering is it's pretty cool i just want
to show you because I I love this part
but the compression on here it really
makes it sound kind of orchestral I love
it
now you'll notice the guitar sound is a
little thin by itself but really that's
not a bad thing if you can make the
guitar is a little thinner like if it's
a song where the guitar is never going
to get a rest anywhere the whole band
doesn't get a rest together then it's a
good opportunity to cut some low end of
it gets hard because um if it's not
standing out by itself um you probably
don't need those low frequencies there
because the base is going to fill it out
it's a good opportunity to just get rid
of some mix mud so anyways this the
guitars eq dynamics processor BAM done I
had a little fun with this so
chugga-chugga part basically it's a very
brief clip that I have during two of the
choruses you can see it is the first one
but um i'ma show you what sounds like
with just that this you can hear there's
a little bit more low end you can see
these frequencies are here where they
were not on the other guitar tracks
that's because you will basically want
to bring out that to be too good to
great part of the song so you know just
leave it in there for that part it's a
cool little add some coal production
value whenever you have a guitar solo
throw a little bit of delay a little bit
of reverb doesn't have to be anything
special just a little bit of the
built-in stuff and GarageBand it usually
does the trick I mean follow your ears
but it usually works for me
sounds pretty cool